There are many different ways that
we could deploy this application.
We can do it bundled or
unbundled or compiled.
We've talked about why we can't
do it bundled or compiled.
But we can deploy it unbundled the way
that we would just deploy any old,
express or node application.
We could deploy it to a virtual machine or
we could deploy it to a PaaS
which is a platform as a service,
or we can deploy it as a container.
Now, of course, you can always deploy
anything that you like on your own
server VM that you have or that's
hosted in the cloud, that's up to you.
A PaaS which is a platform as a service
is where the hosting provider
provides the runtime and
you provide your code.
The most popular one of these is probably
Heroku although Azure has one as well.
Google Cloud has them, Amazon has them,
you find them everywhere.
We're not going to use them one here
today because they're all very specific
to that cloud.
And if I show you just one way,
then it won't be applicable everywhere and
I want to do something
that will work everywhere.
And so one of the things that we can do
that will just work everywhere is to put
this thing inside of a Docker
container to deploy it.
So that's what we're going
to do in this section here.
So containers,
if you don't know what containers are, and
because it wasn't a prerequisite for
this course..
But basically what it is, is it's a way to
bundle up your entire application and your
run time, make sure that it works on your
machine, and then you can just take it and
move it over to the server and
start it and it will work there too.
Without explaining the ins and
outs of containers,
that's just the magic that they do.
So how do we create a container?
Well, we're gonna have to
have Docker installed and
we need a file that's going to
define how this container is built.
So I'm going to create a new file and
call it Docker file.
And in this Docker file, we need to
pull in an image that has deno in it.
Now deno doesn't have
an official Docker image, but
this hayd person has been
creating these deno images and
the community seems to be okay with this.
And they seem to be keeping on
top of the releases as well.
So I'm going to guess that
1.6.1 is available already.
We'll see here in a minute.
All right, the next thing that we wanna
do here is define a working directory for
our application inside of the container.
So we're basically just saying, hey, make
a folder in this container called app and
we're going to put all
of our files in there.
And then we want to copy
all of the files from
the current directory into the container,
okay?
And then the next thing that
we want to do is define a port
variable which we're going
to PaaS to the application.
Now, this is pretty important because
when you actually deploy these
containers to production, you're gonna
get a random port assigned to you.
And because you don't know what that is,
you need to read it in as an environment
variable which we haven't been doing.
So we're gonna need some modifier
application a little bit which we'll do in
just a second.
And then lastly, we just need to start the
container actually two more things to do.
One is to start the container, so
we're gonna say deno, run, A, right?
I don't think we need to do unstable and
we want to run the app.ts file.
I'm pretty sure that's all we need.
I PaaS the unstable I don't
think we need that though.
And then lastly we just wanna expose
this port variable from the containers
that we can actually access it
once our code is running inside.
All right, so crash,
course and Docker there.
So when our app here, what we're gonna
do instead of assigning the port is
we're gonna use that deno.env.get to
get the port, but if it's not there,
then we'll just use Port 3000.
But what this allows us to do is to read
this port that's parsed in right here.
So when we set this environment value, it
gets passed to deno, and we can read it.
So let's do this.
And here's from our bundling,
delete the app that ESC,
let's delete sleet app.
All right, so
how do we build this thing now that
we have a docker container for it?
Well from VS code,
we're gonna say build container.
Build image Docker images build image.
So let's do that.
And it wants to know which
Docker file do you want to use.
We're going to pick the one
in the solution folder.
And then what do you want to call it?
We'll just call it do deno exercises.
And then we're just going to go ahead and
let this container build.
And this is going to take a little
bit of time the first time it happens
because it's going to pull down
the image it's got to copy our stuff in,
it's got to pull down all
the dependencies for deno.
It's got to do everything and
create the image.
Now once this is finished running, we can
look in the Docker extension here and
we should see an image
called deno exercises,
which we do updated a few seconds ago.
So how do we run this thing?
Well, we just right click it and
we're just going to run interactively,
And it's running.
You can see it pulling in all of our
dependencies, checking our file.
Now listening,
we get a random port here so let's see.
Let's click on this Open.
Yeah, see how we got
this random port here.
I don't know if you can see that
it was randomly assigned to us but
it still works because port is a variable.
All right, so now we've got this
container we need to actually
get this container into
a hosting provider.
So to do that, we just need to push it so
I'm gonna right click this image and
say push.
And then it wants to know it asked me for
a namespace here and by tagging it
with my name, this is gonna push it
to Docker Hub underneath my account.
And then we're just
tagging it with latest.
So we'll just hit Enter.
It's gonna log into Docker,
it's going to push my container.
And then we should see
under registries and
Docker Hub, We should see deno
exercises and we do it's right there.
And just to check on it,
we can open a browser.
So let's do open,
Here it is updated a few seconds ago.
All right, so we've got our container
with our deno project in the cloud,
how do we run it?
Well, we need some place
where we can run a container.
The next part I'm gonna do in Azure, but
any cloud provider that supports
containers will work just fine here.
These steps are specific to Azure but
you can substitute in any
other service that you like.
So let's do deploying it to a registry,
which we just did.
We just pushed it.
And then we need to create our site.
I need to do it here in
Visual Studio code, I'm sorry.
So let me do this.
All right so this is what we
call the Cloud Shell in Azure.
So it's a bash terminal where
we don't have to log in,
we don't have to install anything.
It's just part of the VS
code extension for
Azure that gives us immediate
access to a terminal.
So we can skip this actual login step here
and we can go directly to this step or
window, create a resource group called
deno exercise group, which we did.
And this is just a group where
we're going to put in our assets,
one of those assets is the container.
And then we need to add
an app service plan.
So I'm going to create that and what that
does is basically us telling Azure what
size of the server we want, and
what we want that server to look like.
So I specified and I don't know how well,
because this is grayed out here but
if we scroll back up.
I selected that it should be Linux, and
I selected that it should be the skew.
Should be f1, which is the free tier.
So if you didn't know,
there's a free tier in Azure,
we're just using the free tier so
we don't get charged.
And then lastly, what we want to
do is actually create the web app.
And I want to PaaS in the name of
that container called deno exercises.
Paste this command in.
I'm just gonna modify one line here,
this one.
Let's grab it from the beginning.
Open our terminal back up.
We'll just get some new lines,
paste it in,
run it, Here we go.
So now it's creating our application
which we called deno-excercise1.
And we have parsed it and
said, hey from Docker Hub.
Pull in this container that we
pushed up to Docker Hub and run it.
So pull it down and run it, which is
exactly what Azure is gonna do here.
And it will take just a minute to do this
because it has to pull the container,
it has to build the container
it has to start the container.
And I have an extension called
the Azure extension for
App Service which shows me
all of my app services.
And if we go here,
there's my container that I've deployed.
So what I want to do is like,
find the URL for these things.
If, [LAUGH] we scroll back
up through all this output,
we can actually find it right here.
Host names, so let's just copy this,
And click here.
Now, the first time that we run this,
it's going to be awful slow,
because Azure actually doesn't do anything
with that container until you request it.
And then once you do make a request,
it pulls the container down does a lot of
downloading, spins up the container,
starts it, makes sure everything is
going but it doesn't actually do that
until you hit that URL for the first time.
So this is going to take just
a minute to fire up here, but
we should see our deno application
running here very shortly.
Any questions on what we did which was
a lot there while we're waiting for
this to spin up?
>> I wanted to ask if it would
be useful to make a volume for
the Docker before the deno
cache if that is,
[INAUDIBLE] process or something?
>> It might, that's a good question,
You can give it a shot.
That would be, that's a good tweak though,
for containers.
Sorry, the question was,
would it be faster to create a volume for
the Deno cache?
And in our case, it's not that big.
So I don't know that necessarily would but
if you had a project of some
significant size, then could be, yeah.
So we're running here and
if we parse in our users route,
yeah, welcome user, there we go.
So we've deployed,
we've successfully deployed and
we are running deno in
production on the Internet.
And you can hit this yourself
if you go to that URL.
We have built and deployed a web
application here with deno today.